Rules from https://www.ultraboardgames.com/checkers/game-rules.php

Setup

    A classic 8x8 chessboard, only the dark squares are used.

    It is positioned so that each player has a light square on the right side corner.

    24 discs (12 of 2 colors)

    Typically, they are flat and round. The color of one set is black and the other red or white or beige.

Game Play

    Checkers is played by two players.

    Each player begins the game with 12 discs and places them on the 12 dark squares closest to him or her.

    Black opens the game, then players alternate their turns.

    Randomly determine who gets the black pieces first. When playing a series of games, the players alternate who gets the black pieces.

Move

    The pieces always move diagonally and single pieces are always limited to forward moves.

    A piece making a non-capturing move may move only one square.

Capture

    To capture a piece of your opponent, your piece leaps over one of the opponent's pieces and lands in a straight diagonal line on the other side. This landing square must be empty.

    When a piece is captured, it is removed from the board.

    Only one piece may be captured in a single jump, but multiple jumps are allowed on a single turn.

    If a player is able to make the capture, then the jump must be made.

    If more than one capture is available, then the player decides if he prefers this or not.

    Single pieces may shift direction diagonally during a multiple capture turn, but must always jump forward (toward the opponent).

Upgrade a piece to a King

    When a piece reaches the furthest row, it is crowned and becomes a king.

    One of the pieces which had been captured is placed on top of the king so that it is twice as high as a single piece.

    Kings are limited to moving diagonally but can move both forward and backward.

    Kings may combine jumps in several directions (forward and backward) on the same turn.

End of the Game

    A player wins the game when the opponent cannot make a move.

    This happens usually because all of the opponent's pieces have been captured, but it could also be because all of his pieces are blocked in.

Additional Rules

    In official games, five minutes are allowed for each move. In the case where there is only one possible jump available, the player has only one minute in which to make it.

    If the player whose move it is touches a piece that can be played, the player must move that piece or forfeit the game.

    If during 20 moves (10 by each player), only kings have changed position and there appear to be repeating movements, then a referee will step in to determine the winner according to who holds the strongest position.

    It is prohibited to annoy or distract your opponent. This includes making signs or sounds, pointing or hovering over the board with your hands or other body parts, needlessly delaying your moves, blowing smoke in your opponent's face, or appearing at the table dressed in a provocative manner.